+++
title = "Mechanism Design and Sponsored Search Auctions"
date = 2018-02-27T12:40:58-05:00
draft = false

# Tags and categories
# For example, use `tags = []` for no tags, or the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []
categories = []

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# Use `caption` to display an image caption.
#   Markdown linking is allowed, e.g. `caption = "[Image credit](http://example.org)"`.
# Set `preview` to `false` to disable the thumbnail in listings.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
preview = true

+++


If you are watching a video on You Tube and the video is paused for an annoying 30 sec advertisement, you probably should know the history behind on-line advertisements. In fact, advertising and internet helped each other attain their respective potentials. Without advertising, there wouldn't be any Google or Facebook (may be not in the present form), and without any internet, you probably wouldn't know about a tourist package in a remote island like Madeira.


In this blog post, let us have a look at a mechanism design called _Sponsored Search Auctions_, which is key to the rise of internet giants like Yahoo! and Google. We shall discuss the properties of such auctions along with examples to gain a better insight. This post is intended for general audience, and hence we shall try hard to not drift into game theoretic concepts (although it is impossible to do so at all times).

Sponsored Search Auctions
======

Before diving into the topic, let us get familiar with auctions. _Auction_ is the sale of items where the seller invites the buyers (bidders) to submit bids and makes a decision on whom to sell it to.  The bidders have their own valuations for the item and submit bids indicating their willingness to pay for it, and the seller allocates the item to the bidder he/she likes the most (usually it is the bidder with the highest bid).  For example, if you want to move to a new place but you do not want to carry some of your furniture/luggage, you put them on
eBay for an auction. If someone fails to repay their loan to a bank, the bank
auctions off the mortgaged property.

Consider that you are planning to travel to Madeira with your friends. A quick internet search for the work 'Madeira tours' results in a list of links some of which
are marked as _Ad_ sponsored by the respective websites. Whenever a user clicks
a sponsored link through the search engine, the advertiser pays a certain amount
to the search engine for facilitating their advertising. In _Sponsored Search Auctions_ for every keyword, the search engine allocates a certain number of slots, and multiple advertisers compete for these slots which provide different value to different advertisers. The probability of an advertiser $i$’s Ad being clicked when placed in a slot $j$ is called the Click Through Rate, or CTR, denoted by $α\_{ij}$ (this is simplified in various mechanisms). The per click value to advertiser $i$ is $s\_{i}$ and the expected value on being assigned a slot $j$ is $α\_{ij}s\_i$.  The search engine must design an efficient mechanism that maximizes the welfare (or the revenue) by assigning the slots to different advertisers (bidders). Let us follow the convention of using search engine for the seller and advertiser for the bidder.

